---
title: SplitMetrics Acquire
slug: splitmetrics-acquire
excerpt: Formerly SearchAdsHQ
hidden: false
metadata:
  title: Splitmetrics Acquire Integration – RevenueCat
  image:
    0: https://files.readme.io/cef7b15-RevenueCat_Docs_OG.png
    1: RevenueCat Docs OG.png
    2: 1200
    3: 627
    4: "#f7f5f5"
createdAt: '2022-05-27T16:53:09.333Z'
updatedAt: '2022-08-19T01:42:50.466Z'
category: 640a7bf1c7bae2004235517b
---
With our SplitMetrics Acquire | Formerly SearchAdsHQ integration you can:
* Accurately track subscriptions generated from Apple Search Ads campaigns, allowing you to know precisely how much revenue your campaigns generate.
* Send trial conversions and renewals directly from RevenueCat to SplitMetrics Acquire, allowing for tracking without an app open.
* Continue to follow your cohorts for months to know the long tail revenue generated by your campaigns.

# 1. Send device data to RevenueCat

The SplitMetrics Acquire integration requires that Apple Search Ads attribution data is sent from the device to RevenueCat. 

The simplest way to collect this information is by setting the `automaticAppleSearchAdsAttributionCollection` property to `true` **before** configuring the *Purchases SDK*.
```swift
import iAd
// ...
Purchases.automaticAppleSearchAdsAttributionCollection = true
Purchases.configure(withAPIKey: "public_sdk_key")
```
Our guide on [Apple Search Ads attribution](doc:apple-search-ads) outlines this step in more detail.

The integration also accepts some optional device-specific data below:
[block:parameters]
{
  "data": {
    "h-0": "Key",
    "h-1": "Description",
    "h-2": "Required",
    "0-0": "`$idfa`",
    "0-2": "❌ (optional)",
    "0-1": "iOS [advertising identifier](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/adsupport/asidentifiermanager/1614151-advertisingidentifier) UUID"
  },
  "cols": 3,
  "rows": 1
}
[/block]
This data should be sent to RevenueCat through reserved [Subscriber Attributes](doc:subscriber-attributes) keys. 
```swift
import AdSupport
import iAd
// ...
Purchases.automaticAppleSearchAdsAttributionCollection = true
Purchases.configure(withAPIKey: "public_sdk_key")
// ...
Purchases.shared.attribution.setAttributes([
    "$idfa" : ASIdentifierManager.shared().advertisingIdentifier.uuidString
])
```

[block:callout]
{
  "type": "danger",
  "title": "Device identifiers with iOS App Tracking Transparency (iOS 14.5+)",
  "body": "If you are requesting the App Tracking permission through ATT to access the IDFA, you can call `.collectDeviceIdentifiers()` *again* if the customer accepts the permission to update the `$idfa` attribute in RevenueCat."
}
[/block]
# 2. Send RevenueCat events into SplitMetrics Acquire

After you've set up the *Purchases SDK* to send device data to RevenueCat, you can "turn on" the integration and configure the event names from the RevenueCat dashboard.

1. Navigate to your project in the RevenueCat dashboard and find the *Integrations* card in the left menu. Select **+ New** 
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/6bd45ee-image.png",
        "image.png",
        664,
        874,
        "#f5f8f8"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
2. Choose **SplitMetrics Acquire** from the Integrations menu.
3. Add your SplitMetrics Acquire Client ID.
4. Enter the event names that RevenueCat will send or choose the default event names.
5. Select whether you want sales reported as gross revenue (before app store commission), or after store commission and/or estimated taxes.
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/a1cee91-SplitMetrics.png",
        "SplitMetrics.png",
        1800,
        2577,
        "#fbfcfc"
      ],
      "caption": "SplitMetrics Acquire | Formerly SearchAdsHQ configuration screen"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]

[block:callout]
{
  "type": "danger",
  "body": "Make sure to remove all client-side tracking of revenue. Since RevenueCat will be sending events for all revenue actions, tracking purchases yourself directly into SplitMetrics Acquire | Formerly SearchAdsHQ can lead to double counting of revenue.",
  "title": "Remove any client-side purchase tracking"
}
[/block]
# 3. Testing the SplitMetrics Acquire integration

You can test the SplitMetrics Acquire integration end-to-end before going live. It's recommended that you test the integration is working properly for new users, and any existing users that may update their app to a new version.

## Make a sandbox purchase with a new user
Simulate a new user installing your app, and go through your app flow to complete a sandbox purchase.

## Check that the required device data is collected
Navigate the the [Customer View](doc:customers) for the test user that just made a purchase. If you chose to send the additional data from step 1 above, check it is listed as an attribute for the user.

## Check that the SplitMetrics Acquire event delivered successfully
While still on the Customer View, click into the test purchase event in the [Customer History](doc:customer-history) and make sure that the SplitMetrics Acquire integration event exists and was delivered successfully. 
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/b3a49ae-image-2.png",
        "image-2.png",
        1402,
        446,
        "#f6f1f1"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
[/block]

[block:callout]
{
  "type": "success",
  "title": "You've done it!",
  "body": "You should start seeing events from RevenueCat appear in SplitMetrics Acquire"
}
[/block]