---
title: Attribution Providers
slug: attribution
excerpt: Integrate and collect attribution data with Purchases SDK
hidden: false
metadata:
  title: In-App Purchase Attribution – RevenueCat
  description: It’s important to know which marketing efforts are most effective at
    acquiring new users and keeping them engaged. RevenueCat can integrate with your
    attribution provider to track how much revenue was driven by each source and ad
    network.
  image:
    0: https://files.readme.io/f5215ed-RevenueCat_Docs_OG.png
    1: RevenueCat Docs OG.png
    2: 1200
    3: 627
    4: "#f7f5f5"
createdAt: '2022-06-23T17:21:20.022Z'
updatedAt: '2023-06-02T23:23:17.742Z'
category: 6478b86233165e07ab13013b
order: 3
---
[block:callout]
{
  "type": "success",
  "body": "Attribution collection is only available on [paid](https://www.revenuecat.com/pricing) plans."
}
[/block]
It’s important to know which marketing efforts are most effective at acquiring new users and keeping them engaged. RevenueCat can integrate with your attribution provider to track how much revenue was driven by each source and ad network.

# Providing Attribution Data to RevenueCat

RevenueCat can help you understand precisely how much revenue your campaigns generate even if users stop opening up the app. By continuing to follow your cohorts whether they're active users or not, you'll know the long tail revenue generated by your campaigns.

Most attribution SDKs provide a way to report revenue from the device, but this completely fails to capture recurring revenue that occurs while a user is not using the app. With RevenueCat, you receive a full picture.

## How does RevenueCat work with your attribution provider?
RevenueCat itself is not an attribution network, and by itself cannot inform you which ad campaigns are driving revenue. What RevenueCat does is take the subscription lifecycle events it knows about, and informs your attribution network of the users that are purchasing. It's the networks' job to then tie these users back to the campaigns that drove them to install.

# Supported Networks

RevenueCat can send revenue events into the following attribution networks:

  * [Adjust :fa-arrow-right:](doc:adjust)
  * [Apple Search Ads :fa-arrow-right:](doc:apple-search-ads)
  * [AppsFlyer :fa-arrow-right:](doc:appsflyer) 
  * [Branch :fa-arrow-right:](doc:branch)
  * [Facebook Ads :fa-arrow-right:](doc:facebook-ads) 
  * [SplitMetrics Acquire | Formerly SearchAdsHQ](doc:splitmetrics-acquire) 
  * [Tenjin :fa-arrow-right:](doc:tenjin)
  * [Singular :fa-arrow-right:](doc:singular) 

If you use an attribution provider not listed here, [contact us](https://www.revenuecat.com/contact).